We selected Mike Gertz to be Product Manager and guide the team, make key decisions, and hold the team accountable for a high quality prototype. Please see our evidence provided in the Git Repository, see file “Evidence for PGPS Design Pool One.pdf”, page 4.

Mike assembled a multidisciplinary team of experienced individuals that worked together to deliver the prototype. Our team was comprised an Interaction Designer, a Visual Designer, and a Front-End Web Developer (see page 6).

The team reviewed the RFQ and decided on a tailored version of our four phase approach – Discover, Design, Develop, and Deploy & Operate - to ensure high quality software development with an adaptive architecture, and efficient and effective use of taxpayer funds (see page 7). Our approach followed an Agile philosophy by building a common vision through design that harmonizes technical feasibility with business viability by placing the user at the center. This allowed us to consistently translate our client’s needs into better designs and quicker projects. Our activities also aligned with the US Digital Services Playbook (DSP).

In the first phase, Discover, we set out to better understand what people needed from the new site.  We conducted a series of analyses to understand the current state and users’ desired goals. We interviewed a group of users to understand their needs and pain points and the processes that the site needed to support (see page 8).  We identified a user persona for the site, the Developer, to represent the users of a system in terms of their typical behaviors, goals, needs, expectations, and pain points (see page 9).  We created the information architecture of the current site to understand the “as-is” functionality and how content is organized on the site (see page 10).  

In the Design phase we executed several user-centered design tasks needed for the prototype.  We worked collectively with the users to create a Conceptual Design for the prototype (see page 11) that included a high-level creative concept and business design to frame a solution.  Our Interaction Designer worked with the users to develop wireframes for the prototype (see pages 12-14). Once the users approved the wireframes, they (with the Product Manager) wrote User Stories and Acceptance Criteria entered them into them our PGAgile tool (http://pastegroup.com/pga/ads/) – also see page 15, acceptance criteria not shown. The final task was the development of a Visual Design to produce visual design comps for the homepage and subpages for the users to decide from (see page 16).

Throughout the project, the team held daily scrum meeting to manage the development and resolve open issues and questions (see page 5). The Product Manager updated the product backlog when stories or chores were completed and augmented it when additional stories or chore were needed.

In the Development Phase, our Front-End Web Developer created the first version of the prototype in day-long sprints, following the User Stories contained in the PGAgile tool. He reviewed the wireframes and consulted “Frankie” our in-house pattern library to source reusable front-end code for the prototype (see page 17). The first sprint focused on the creation of the homepage and the main navigation bar using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery; these tools are part of the DSP modern tool stack (see page 18). He tested and revised his code to ensure it worked as specified in the user stories and acceptance criteria.

The first checkpoint with the Product Manager and the users took place after the homepage and main navigation were first implemented. Feedback from the team resulted in several positive design changes to the homepage and navigation. A question arose as to the design of the Drugs subpage, so our Product Manager set up a usability test with a couple of users to test which design concept was best (see pages 19-20). The test told the team which way to go so that the next checkpoint included a revised subpage for Drugs with new visual design elements added to the homepage. 

From beginning to end, our approach is completely iterative (see page 21).  Users were engaged to give their input for all aspects of the site. With each update of the code, our developer pushed updates into Git (see Page 22).  During user-acceptance meeting we found changes that needed correcting to ensure delivery against the design goals (see page 23). 

Our responsive prototype developed with openly licensed and free of charge tools is accessible from your desktop browser at http://pastegroup.com/ads. - also see page 24-25. Installation instructions are available (see page 26).
